v0.1.0 Design Document

by the people listed in the credits under the RedmondTux section
no website yet

April 26, 2026

OVERVIEW
--------
This is the design document for v0.1.0, the first stable version
of the game. This 0.1.0 release of the game will feature:
- 7 enemies (BSOD, RSOD, Laptop, Redtop, Bag, Explod, Flammable)
- 6 playable levels
- New music
- Completely redone, but still close to the original v0.0.6, graphics

ACTIONS
-------
There will be various changes, like there not being a skid animation
anymore, as it's unnecessary. Also, running is now automatic. A major
change is that there will now be a butt-jump action, similar to Super
Mario's Ground Pound.

ENEMIES
-------
This list includes old and new enemies.

  BSOD
    This is a basic walking enemy that walks in a direction, hits a wall, 
    and flips. This enemy is very easy to defeat as all you need to do is 
    bump it from below (if it's on bricks or bonus blocks) or squish it 
    from above by just jumping on it.

    It's sprites could be improved, but it should be good enough for the
    unstable pre-0.1.0 version being worked on named 0.0.8.
  
  RSOD
    Same as the BSOD, but when reaching an edge, instead of falling, this
    enemy will flip.
  
  Laptop
    This is another basic walking enemy that does the same as the BSOD, but
    with a twist. When it's squished, it can be kicked, held or thrown (it
    can only be thrown if it's being held)
    
    It's sprites will be improved for 0.0.8, as the current sprites looks
    like a laptop except it's made out of paper.
  
  Redtop
    Same as the Laptop, but when it's awake and it reaches an edge, instead
    of falling, this enemy will flip.
  
  Bag
    This is a basic jumping enemy. The only movement it does is jumping at
    the same height every time. When it dies, it should drop 2 coins, which
    are worth 4 distros.
  
  Explod
    This is a basic walking bomb enemy, similar to something like Bob-Omb from 
    Super Mario. When you squish this enemy, it stops walking and starts a 
    countdown timer that lasts until it explodes. This bomb explodes quick, so
    you need to be fast after squishing it.
  
  Flammable
    This is an enemy that ignores all collisions and moves in a circle. It can't
    be killed.

MISC
----
  Aspect Ratio
    The aspect ratio should be 640x480 for now. It can be changed later to be 
    16:9 (854x480)

  Random Things
    There won't be lives or timers anymore, so the player can spend as much time 
    as they want on a level, and can die as much as they want (or don't want) on 
    a level.

    There will be parallax backgrounds, unlike SuperTux 0.0.6, which only allowed
    one image for the backgrounds.

    There will be back-scrolling because it's actually harder to remove back
    scrolling than it is to keep it.

LEVELS
------
Every level from v0.0.6 should be included here with the new enemies like RSOD,
Redtop, and Explod.

TILES
-----
Every Antarctica tile will be remade due to those tiles looking either bad (rock
tiles) or needing improvements but isn't too bad (snow tiles). Why were the snow
tiles remade? To fit the style of the snow rocks and the background, and also
because the snow had no color and the ice was a bit weird, although not bad.

Darkstone Tiles will be updated to remove the weird green outline square from
the bottom left of one of the tiles, and it will now be smoother.

There will be a one-tile version of the Darkstone tiles for autotiling / terrain.

(These are already done for v0.0.8 except the one-tile Darkstone tile)

BACKGROUNDS
-----------
As said in the MISC section, backgrounds are now parallax backgrounds, as Godot
makes it way easier than something like SDL. The Arctis background has been remade
for v0.0.8, but may need the shore image to be darker, which can be something done
after v0.0.8 but before v0.1.0 releases.

OBJECTS
-------
Only new objects will be listed here.

  Coins
    Coins are equal to 2 distros. So far, the only way of getting coins is planned
    to be the Bag enemy, but hard-to-kill enemies that will be added in future
    versions will likely contain coins. There could also be coins in hard-to-get-to
    places in levels.
